I'm really thrilled to be announcing
Shuli Chang uh who's an artist and
filmmaker chain constructs Network
installation and multiplayer performance
in participatory impromptu mode she
drafts sci-fi narratives in her film
scenario and artwork imagination
she builds social interface with
transgressive plots and open networks
that permit a public participation
her genre bending gender hacking art
practices challenged the existing
operating mechanisms and the imposed
boundaries of society geography politics
and economic structures
as a net art Pioneer Brandon uh 1978 to
1999 was the first work of web art
commissioned and collected by the
Solomon or Guggenheim Museum in New York
she crafts her own genre of new queer
sci-fi Cinema with her feature-length
films fresh kill 1994 iku 2000 and
fluido 2017.
from homesteading cyberspace in the 90s
to her current Retreat to post-net crash
bionet Zone Chang takes on viral love
biohacking in her current cycle of works
she represented Taiwan with a three by
three by six uh with three by three by
the six a mixed media installation at
the Venice biennale in 2019 and she is
currently working on Yuki an
interruptive Cinema and an interrupted
Cinema work
um as well as unborn 09 a hacking
performance with future baby production
she's going to talk about those in just
a minute uh so I'll turn it over to
Julie
hello great area Festival people today
I'm gonna introduce two projects I'm
currently working on
these are the two projects two landscape
and two State of Mind one is called
cycle X which is a green project located
in Andes New York uh Upstate New York at
Catskill area this is important I
co-funded with several of my uh feature
film fresh kill producers for several
years now and we are actually starting
to work on it and hoping to
nurture the Future Farmers there are
many project initiatives going on at the
moment including living architecture
making a vertical garden uh different uh
starting a geek camp in the summer
so it's a very open free-form laboratory
uh where we are actually pretty much
testing the food and medicine with
different vegetables grows another
project is my long-term project since
2009 at the moment it's been developed
into a feature lens film called Yuki
which is a Sci-Fi viral or reality
Cinema
where I'm working with the Yuki the
virus as infiltrating agents to sabotage
genome Corporation this involved many 3D
effects 3D engineering involve also a
lot of plots that set the plot is set in
3D constructing constructed sets that
include e-transville blood cell vessels
and and infected City I'm still a kind
of show and tell and do some picture
sharing with you
so here as we see one is of vegetable
growing and one is in the blood cells
that had the bio net totally sci-fi with
a DNA reconstruct re-engineering
so to know more about the project
really about who lives here those
inhabitants who lives here so a cycle X
you see wild flowers
you see a mushroom going on the trees
you see a kind of garden that is totally
not so
organized in a way but actually very
organized we also welcome different
sculpture here this is actually a
sculpture that wrote that actually
the water can come out from the
sculpture and water the garden there's
many different kind of uh
vegetables being grown however it
doesn't seem to have an organized lot
so this is actually cell phone by Andy
and these are the Sprouts or the garlic
so of course the project also started
with when I was working on the particle
garlic equal which year back in 2002 in
New York City was created time and the
farm is now kind of still have the
garlic gloves I'm working with the
rhizome.org in New York we continued to
cultivate garlic here and the project
would be called garlic equal Rich air
and it seemed to be keep going and
in the summer we this summer we started
a big ham we invited six artists to come
which are having a more of a bio uh
biodiversity
focused artists that focus on Research
in biotech biodiversity and the the
party gear will be shown at the Queen's
Museum later in October as a collective
art project
um so to come back to Yuki that we have
again we have impact inhabitants in Yuki
but maybe I would show you the landscape
or UK first which would be a 3D
constructed set of
e-trash Bill this is a very quick uh
browsing through the landscape
so actually I think there is a green and
there is green so at each view you would
have toxic green uh this is a toxic cow
and toxic uh people uh however this
project actually also is started
development uh in 2009 when I did a
residency a hunger media lab in
Barcelona uh the project UK is Yuki is
actually the name of the virus the plant
is a bit complicated maybe I didn't have
time to get into it here now however
um the project since its development in
2009 had gone through uh several
different kind of process including uh
being a live Cinema performance being a
video game or more like like a viral
game I called it with the biosensors and
uh basically it also involved a big
Corporation by that who are actually
making a bionet inside human body inside
a occupied human body as a Sci-Fi I'm
free to do anything of course so I want
to introduce the it's really at the
moment I'm supposed to be in uh 3D
production at the moment remotely and
very small scale lead we are working on
the laptop remote so these are the
characters I'm avatars I'm creating for
the e-transview that's gonna be 22
avatars or 22 characters so these are
all gender foolish human non-human nurse
keys transmutants and Beyond
Michels variants
um at the end is very virus related just
to get close up of a few characters uh
this is for example
this is uh
which one is this this is one of the
characters uh cosmonauts uh one of the
characters of cosmonos another
characters also customers as you can see
these inhabitants on the E trash wheel
actually dress with all the e-trash that
they can find
there's also the ozone characters who
rise on
uh what you write on August so
kind of travel
kind of travel with the roller skates
and again it's uh
they also wear these uh goggles that
just make up of the first generation or
iPhone so again it's a sci-fi movie so I
can do everything uh here is uh Alba who
is a person a human trapped in a
jellyfish so
we are developing this whole animation
for example but again you know all these
are almost like The First beginning of
the
all the Productions so we throughout the
process we should be uh making more of
the adjustment or making it better so
it's a it's just a really long process
and this is the first time I'm actually
showing these uh avatars as work in
progress in in great area platform uh
for me
um it's a long process to make this film
a concept starting from 2009 and I'm
currently in production 3D and next year
I would do the film production in Berlin
the film contains like a 3de trash wheel
and there's also a infected City and
there's also the genus bionet so a lot
of different animation
um I just want to talk about the reason
uh I decided to present these two
particular projects of that I'm
currently very engaged in and to
actually present uh two different
landscape uh two kinds of green the
toxic green and the natural green uh
pretty much after the the Kobe time as
we know or we are still in the Copic
time we Still In This Very prolonged uh
pandemic uh of course there is a call to
go back to Nature a call to go back to
the farm uh we started a psycho X we
actually started this process of
regeneration and recovery so we it's
almost like we have to rebuild our
community to bring people to come and to
farm together and to not only form uh
the the usual uh sort of substance but
actually taking the forming as a next
step of considered food can be the
medicine considered food can cure and
food can bring us together back together
to be grounded on the Greenland right as
for Yugioh of course uh it is about the
kind of uh state that we are in uh what
I say uh you and I don't live in the
same viral reality but we are in this
bio reality that we don't know how to
get out of uh so the virus Gonna Keep
mutating it's gonna live with us uh and
there is probably the only way out is
for us to become virus men right so
virus becoming I have since 2009 calling
my word as bio biohack Enviro love and
all these kind of work is again is
um so the counter the corporations
control of our body data the cooperation
control of a very of you know various
body control I think the biotechnology
that is currently development is going
to change the whole biosphere of our
bodies or the nature and everything so
we have to put uh into a little alert to
this situation uh again uh you know so
um I guess it is okay for me to uh to do
these two parallel work uh in terms of
engage myself with a group of farmers
and engage myself with the avatars with
transmutants human non-human
um
sometimes it does drive me crazy you
know so it kind of feel like wow which
word am I in or like how do we actually
Traverse uh these two land but I thought
the the gray area uh the theme of the
gray area of the world in protocol this
year is very suitable for me to present
these two completely uh different
projects but definitely not
contradiction not in contradiction
because I think we need both right we
need to push ourselves into a
into a different landscape into the East
into finding a different solution uh and
at the same time being grounded is also
super important again is about the
protocols right so if we how how do we
figure out to navigate Our Lives now how
do we figure out what is the portal to
take us to the next world uh so there's
a lot of these kind of thinking in my
head all the time and I'm glad to have
this chance to present it here I'm gonna
show a very short clip of um of ukip
virus Rising as a three-channel
installation that's currently on view at
Hammer Museum until January 2021 Hammer
Museum in Los Angeles so if you happen
to go down to Hammer Museum the the
piece is called Yuki virus rising in the
three channel installation I'm going to
show you the two clips of the
documentation yeah
all right
okay so this ends my talk for today
thanks
hi everyone welcome back I'm super
excited to be joined here by Shirley
chain uh who we just heard a little bit
about a little bit from about her work
Yuki and psycho X in Upstate New York
welcome you're welcome Julie
very happy to be here awesome
um
you know I think you laid out really
well these projects and we saw you know
some little pieces from them
um but I'd like to you know just start
out on a broader level on just about
your practice in general and how you
approach this idea of Worlds building
um in your work what's kind of the first
step and how do you start to conceive of
these expansive alternate realities
uh for for the movie making uh the Yuki
project actually it was in the beginning
was like uh come see as a sequel to my
to my previous film iku which was making
uh so Yuki was conceived in 2009 when I
was doing an artist in residency at
hunger uh in Barcelona
um so at that time I I didn't think I
would particularly go into this
direction of virtual reality or 3D
construction or the landscape but it's
been such a long process of trying to
make this movie and in the beginning I
was only making more like a live
performance as a game but then finally
to conceive as a feature film and so in
the process there's technical change I
stopped got involved more into uh using
a game engine Unity so at the moment I'm
constructing maybe 60 of the film will
be constructed on unity and also with
Avatar building yeah
wow I mean the worlds that you construct
are so rich and most of them are rooted
in
um in the ethos of cyberpunk of hacking
um of sight of Cypher Punk um as well
and so I wanna I wanna know a little bit
more about how those ideas are those
philosophies into you and then how they
manifest through your artwork
yeah uh
in a certain way uh I think I'm kind of
drifting away uh from the reality more
and more or in a way uh at the same time
it's a response to reality you know but
the reality is sometimes is so harsh and
so try to find a different way to debate
it in a way I think my work is grounded
uh in the reality social reality
political economic reality I think I am
making certain common you know for
example Yuki at the end is really uh
bring out the cooperation working with
biotechnology you know the current
biotech
development and maybe taking down the
different direction that we don't know
um and also you know usually the the
Pharmaceuticals involvement in
designing all our drugs right so these
are all partners
reality that I'm dealing with
wow
um
the this
you know how do you you know your work
almost feels in a lot of ways like a
cautionary tale like you're warning the
world against something that that could
that that could go awry very quickly
um and I've always really been inspired
by work that employs practices of
simulation to to do this because as much
as we can simulate possibilities we can
also simulate negative possibilities and
kind of learn from what could kind of go
go off course
um and I'm wondering you know how you
think about simulation and think about
simulation as a technique in these
fantastic alternate realities that
you're constructing
I need to do that for example the the
landscape the electronic trash landscape
was based on the study I went to Africa
I was in Nigeria
really had the bit of firsthand
experience of how people are the African
people are taking in all the e-trash
from the developed country and how that
had to be processed managing to get some
couples out of it for sale for you know
so that's a whole sort of economic
situation also in this way
um in in the process of digging into the
reality
and kind of dropping the documentary way
of constructing the reality uh then it's
only way it would be going for these
more hyper reality I guess
um
hyper reality is something that I've
been thinking about a lot too recently
and I mean it just feels so like
pressing
um you know in in current years I mean I
I think I think a lot about Adam
Curtis's hyper normalization and the
process by which images and information
kind of um indoctrinate and shape
perception and thus create reality
um and you know the way that our current
media environment is oriented it it
doesn't even feel like it doesn't feel
like an abstract Theory or concept at
all you can feel it happening in real
time as you hear things that you know
not to be true and you you know the car
you know everyone that I'm talking to
right now like you know every my
co-workers my friends my family the
world just feels so bewildered right now
there's this real feeling of confusion
of disillusionment of really just not
what's coming next
um and you know I've always really
appreciated cyberpunk literature and
science fiction because I feel like in a
lot of ways it helps us to understand
how that hyper reality works and also
helps us to
um you know think through ways of
resisting it and pushing against and you
know forging a more positive path
forward
um and so you know I'm wondering you
know how you you know how you conceive
of this current moment and how you can
see even the kind of hyper normalization
of false narratives and ideas that's
happening right now I mean your work
really deals with the impact I mean
particularly with your work in the gray
area diorama exhibition red pill where
we see this advertisement for this drug
and kind of the relationship between
images and you know making something
false real then how do you kind of sort
through these ideas
um you know in your practice
oh okay so in terms of the development
of the movie uh it actually because uh
also also uh at the end when I decide to
work on the long feature lens film uh
this started in 2017 which I first got
the French funding and then by uh 2020 I
finally have time to work on the film
script and of course uh the the pandemic
hit and so I started writing this good
uh uh pretty much during the pandemic
and during the lockdown in Paris and of
course what's happening with the
pandemic actually does affect the script
writing uh
excuse me by the way
um by the way of course the script
arrived from the beginning Yuki is
actually
UK is actually the name of the virus so
in dealing with Yuki the virus during
the covid-19 and looking at how the
vaccine get developed by different
pharmaceutical
companies the competition uh the kind of
secrecy of making a vaccine that the
different privilege of who get the
vaccine who doesn't get the vaccine in
the global political sense
um it really affects the whole direction
of the schools so in a way that this
could have many different dimensions uh
that I'm developing I have long been
informed by the cyberpunk and later I uh
you know by the time I made foods are
already released in 2017 I did call it
the Cypher Punk science fiction movie
um I think this involves any kind of
critic encrypted uh
coding again I think and critical coding
in terms of against the the kind of as a
way to uh against the censorship as a
way to avoid censorship is very
important in the process of of the
hacker trying to rewrite the codes and
uh I think maybe in this sense in my
work maybe clothes and data uh really
inform the whole uh basic Direction
I mean it's so interesting that this
project was was begun you know prior to
the covid-19 pandemic you know and in so
many ways feel like it you know and
that's kind of one of the reasons why
the work feels like a cautionary tale
because in a lot of ways it was
prophetic
um and so how has it been to continue
working on this film and have has your
approach changed at all
um or have you been informed by kind of
the current state of our worlds in the
the pandemic crisis that we're still in
the middle of
uh yeah pretty much quite affected by it
I have rewrite a certain scenario uh for
example uh as in the commercial you saw
the handshake uh before I had never
thought about handshake as a way of a
connection uh so you remember in the
beginning of pandemic even now like we
are not supposed to have handshake right
we like you know we develop different
way of greeting each other uh part of it
is the the handshake is like
transmitting web data right it's kind of
well it's not data the viral
transmission so I sort of took that as a
hint for example so at the moment like
the handshake become a very uh important
action in the film in terms of uh
appropriated by the corporation and
that's the way uh that you're gonna uh
sort of change the web data and
but at the same time during the exchange
a web data you could also easily get uh
you know the the corporation again no
cooperation in this case can actually uh
Harvest or mining your web data through
you know through when you have this
content so a lot of these probably come
from particularly come from uh the
reason uh development in
um you know during the pandemic yeah
yeah
sorry dumb are you
um hi Julia hi
um I'm very excited to be here with you
now I love your work it's it's really
inspiring um but I was gonna ask you
kind of like in seeing this is really
nice
um that is this the this is the work
that's at in Newark city is that correct
okay
because to me it's almost like you're I
mean you're really approaching like data
and system like as a medium so as like a
way to sort of transmit
um Concepts and ways of sharing an
exchange
um can you maybe talk about like because
just you're just the kind of your
approach to mediums and how you sort of
see them sort of disseminating across
each other
yes um interestingly uh because I'm
really focused on making a film and of
course like now we do use digital media
and we use any kind of software you know
I have been working with different 3D
software Cinema 4D or in the case or
constructing the landscape as I say uh
using a game engine uh Unity so it's
kind of like Cinema capture so
in a way for me uh technology become
available for me or I can have access to
different medium then I would use it uh
in terms of thinking about what could be
a kind of events or upgrade myself to
another level uh I have also worked with
for example in the development UK I have
also used a kind of biosensor so you can
actually put I've developed this wrist
with kind of
sensor capacity that you can test the
hobby the blood flow and actually it's
like a collective game and so you you
can actually buy collectively uh boost
your blood flow you can actually win the
game that kind of thing yeah so this
that's that kind of a different medium
for different uh projects and different
purpose uh recently actually I just got
the release of a website uh also kind of
based on this uh
this whole you know at the moment I'm
producing a lot of work uh artwork based
on the film uh so for example I just
released a website called Welcome to
bionet uh which is uh a commission from
the Apple budget in London and it's also
a kind of collective game in a way
people have to play together
so I am interested in trying different
mediums and particularly with this
recent sort of media technology the
update and the only thing I haven't
really tried is uh I still fail to
create a virtual reality quality
work I am kind of hesitating yeah about
it at the same time of course a lot of
my work probably posed in kind of going
in the direction but I I still call it
more like a old reality you know instead
of alternative but it's alt you know
more like more like a keys on your
computer the whole reality
um so this yeah so I guess I guess just
reflect back to what we just say in this
kind of
confusing time in a way yeah I think I
think it's proper to say that we are in
a very confusing time because in the
process of re you know supposed to have
certain kind of recovery or you know
fighting back and thinking we are on the
upper hand but we are not you know we
still every day and to deal with a very
confusing situation
um so
um it's true you know
in this kind of time then uh that's why
when I start talking about psycho X when
I start talking about like oh go back to
the farm or you know working on the farm
that probably presents something very uh
tangible right it's grounded it's
tangible
um I just spent last weekend at the at
the farm upstate New York and uh you
know it just feel so uh it's healthy
yeah it is what we call entering into
the recovery and regeneration I'm
working with many different people with
different skills the
different approach to the land and so
this is a also a very interesting
project so it's a you know for me that's
why uh particularly for gray area first
of all I want to present uh two very
different reality right yeah
because I wanted to talk about that a
little bit too
um and how did you get how did you get
started with this with this project I
mean you know your work I I always think
of you know I of course think of you as
a digital artist working in New Media um
film and animation and net art and
um so you know to when I heard that you
were working on this project related to
farming I like didn't at first
understand the the jump and so this is
yeah it's for real yeah
so I'd love to know more about you know
how you got started with it what really
inspired you and made you want and yeah
what made you what inspired you to want
to do something more tangible that's
rooted in a practice that is uh much
more analog
uh yes uh in um
during the time I live in New York City
through
its 90s you know so again the 80s and
90s in New York was also a really
tremendous time particularly with the
epidemic the AIDS crisis and you know
but uh I think living in New York City
is one
security thing about well maybe many
major cities have this tendency you know
people go away for the weekend I so I I
usually got chance from uh my friends
who have uh houses or Farms houses
Upstate New York so we will go always
like all this to take the weekend
outside of New York City and this is
always so rewarding you know if you
spend a bit of time outside New York
during the weekend uh so I started going
to Upstate New York and start again
hanging out with sculptors and you know
they all a big dear friend of mine named
Toby he's a welder a sculptor but he
actually started getting into farming uh
and in Upstate New York and when I start
work you know so that we are very dear
friend and he he does welding he
actually does welding for David
Hammond's work right so it's it's like
he always asks me like oh would you like
me to well something will you yeah I was
like I really had nothing to be welded
together
because I'm totally doing digital but
finally I really want to do
collaboration with him and then he was
saying like well I go too many garlic
you know I have so many garlic I can't
even sell it so one year I actually
wrote The Grand proposal about how to
use his garlic as an art project so this
was back in 2002 I got a funding uh
seeing the funding is called challenge
to a field and I sort of take the field
as really the field you know the the
farm rather than the field as to Media
field and propose this project called
garlic equal Rich air and so this was
also the time back in the early early
2000s this was the time that we are all
fighting for having free assets to the
Wi-Fi you know this is a whole long
history of fighting for
ao2.11 free assets because uh again you
know there was a time when the Wi-Fi
started to make available and people are
start signing it off and but at the same
time we say oh we have to really see we
can share the Wi-Fi to the people you
know we should not be paying for it all
the time
um so I kind of take the garlic you know
if someone had the garlic everybody can
smell it
I make this analogy between garlic and
Wi-Fi and so become like share the smell
or share the Wi-Fi so that became an art
project that was shown at Venice
Vietnamese also in 2003 and later in
2019 got revised by a
rhizome.org in New York and so we
actually continue this project and uh
you know
so anyway uh so now we have this
Farmland called psycho X is a non-profit
land trust and we could actually manage
to do many things there but it's a very
slow process again you know because of
there's no funding there's no particular
but it's a very raw place but we call it
like a open form laboratory but the
laboratory actually is focused more on
farming yeah so farming in the sense of
through a medicine through farming for
food but food can be medicine also so
particularly at this time right you know
in you know we were supporting lunch so
many different ideas last year so
everything got canceled so it actually
gave us some time to rethink about which
step we are taking yeah
that's such a cool story and I love to
see you know it's so cool just like one
you know small and somewhat silly
project with garlic grew into something
that was able to serve as one a really
powerful metaphor But ultimately grow
into this this thing that hasn't meshed
the whole community that you've brought
up there to cycle X yeah we're gonna try
to bring more people and uh you know
right now I'm working with uh mushroom
compost
and uh living architecture
yeah I know but it would be good it
would be fine you know in the farm it
should not be a problem but um yeah
[Music]
I have a question for you you know of
course you know you are a legendary net
artist in working and thinking about the
internet material for for many years
um and it you know and also you know we
were talking about your influences of
cyberpunk Cypher Punk et cetera Etc
um you know there this moment is a
really transformative moment for digital
art in a lot of ways or at least it's
lauded to be by for instance the boom of
cryptocurrencies uh and nfts of the
different ways that rendering engines
are made really readily available to
users how we've kind of left you know
and so kind of as we're you know
entering the cusp of web 3 you know I
would love to just hear your take on
this moment
um that we're living in and how you
think and you know the kind of
relationship between the internet now
and the internet when you first started
working with it
um and kind of what yeah like and within
that like what you're excited about or
alternatively what you're you're nervous
to to see come to fruition
um maybe uh in a certain way everything
get recycled right we we just have our
70s uh
sort of the pants coming back or
something you know so maybe the the
internet is coming back by past the
internet you know nft is probably
bypassing uh could be by passing the
internet
um and
um I'm actually currently also working
on some radio project which particularly
focus on have his own space uh and again
this is like Beyond a 5G you know so
then you have the whole electronic
magnetic field
at the end for me all these media
technology is always about assets it's
always about how sometimes a lot of
times that we thought that we have the
space but it is quickly being
commercialized being quickly being
monopolized you know the neck is the
same situation I think in the beginning
a group of artists when we start using
the net that was the atom to make
Freedom you know we are appropriate all
kinds of uh technical possibility
however these days you cannot you know
go to the net without all the cookies
embedded all the you know without any
being tracked and everything so for me
of course the net is like the the Lost
ground for us
um the nft of course is based on
blockchain which which again is this is
another whole uh story to debate about
but blockchain is not new nft is not
enough it's not new uh in terms of we
have also been doing different coins we
have always always been
um you know different Community
local community have been using
different kind of alternative economy at
a difficult time uh for example in
Argentina during the whole 19 you know
during the economic crash in the 1990 is
um that's actually is where uh the
garlic project came about too that using
you know different uh objects as a
different coin you know so right now
we're talking about coin token for
example uh so same as
there is a whole history of alternate
economy happening already so for sure
you know at the moment with the nft
um well actually we we've been talking
about maintaining the the garlic token
the whole last weekend so that's also
quite appropriate
um I at the end I'm I'm not so uh I'm
quite open to all this development that
may be saying that I I
look at it as a different phenomenon
tend to happen here and there is Sprouts
and we're gonna see which ones survive
or you know how people take on to do
different thing with it uh certain
certain way or channeling May survive a
certain things may corrupt uh nft of
course could easy easy collapse any
moment and so at the same time we're
using it so
I guess they're you know it's it's more
like in the early 80s when we started
working with Public Access TV for
example and there was a kind of model
saying like use it or lose it you know
because that was like when public assets
start making available that you can
start have the channel
um you know because of the the cable
condition and say okay fine then there's
a you know say we have to use public
assets TV in order to get our message
through and if you don't use it they
will take away this channel right so at
the same so this is kind of my way of
dealing with many things you know use it
or lose it so if any channel any assets
available to us we use it right
yeah yeah I mean I think that it's you
know we talk a lot about the harms and
the dangers and the apparent inherent
pitfalls of using this technology but we
also don't but we don't always talk
about you know ways that we can harness
it ways that we can you know repurpose
it and you know use the good without the
bad yeah as you said use it or lose it
it's how it feels that feels really
um
yeah I don't know it feels really good
to hear
um
damn it I would love go ahead sorry
Julia were you gonna say something
no the um
what you know for for a younger
generation you know who's born digitally
native who's growing up with 5G in their
home with smart devices
um and who you know what kind of advice
would you give or how would would you
want the internet netizen of today born
today to engage with the changing
network and to participate in a way that
is generative uh positive
um constructive anything you know yeah
something like that
yeah
it's interesting
to see you mean with
as a like the kid yeah the friends the
friend has kids they they can only look
at the screen right they just work on
the screen they only know how to uh do
fingers through yeah
um
I don't know I play ping pong with them
I was
just park and play ping pong
particularly during the pandemic you
know when you cannot do so much exercise
you say okay let's go play ping pong
um I I think it's a
by playing ping pong uh is is the way
that I feel like yes we we had lost the
capacity to uh dealing with each other
in a physical sense that we have a sort
of our so-called social network is
totally uh finger finger as we
would say uh and so we need to get back
to more social activity in a way of a
physical uh activity
including physical exercise or physical
closeness
um however again you know we are talking
about building any kind of community any
kind of network but we have to rethink
about what's the community building
what's the social network building uh in
the very uh different sense you know
yeah
we only have a couple minutes left but
before we go I just want to I know that
you know as you're working on uh Yuki
um you have been really clear to support
uh and include folks of all different
kinds of gender identities and that kind
of fluidity in the performers that you
involve has been really important to
this piece and to you I was wondering if
you could tell us a little bit about
that process and you know why that uh
has how that's going to manifest um in
the in the in the film
yes
um particularly
um
you know in the e-trashfield we have a
lot of transmutants and what I call the
human and non-human uh this is also
involved with uh you know not to talk
about the the biotechnology that's been
a lot of experiments in the hyper lab uh
at the same time there's a whole
different uh bio lab uh web lab also the
more like DIY bio artists seen happening
you know here in Europe and I believe in
America this is a certain channel in
communication also
um so these all point out to uh for the
bio artists of these kind of DIY bio lab
is always talking about like how can we
take uh report reprocess these
technology you know so in terms of uh
DNA transfer sequencing in terms of home
and Gene modification
how could we appropriate this technology
but in a more human in the kind of we
understand how manageable sense uh in
this particular process doesn't matter
so the art is working for example
cameras are working on transplant
injecting the plant DNA to the own body
so we are always in this transitional
period also because of the you know we
start talking about uh the kinship you
know as the team should talk about
um so we have to include many different
creatures in our dialogue right so it's
when I say transmutance you know in my
film I include a kind of jellyfish human
being combination so all these are part
of the process of the the tech
development that take me to this stage
and of course
um the gender Fusion has always been the
topic of my work I have always think
the trends trans Identity or
transformation or transgression this is
all part of my area of study and I still
follow this uh possession but again
maybe Yuki actually we need more of that
transmutant elements to the film and but
this almost become quite a reality to us
you know if you think about what the
Biola is developing you know so if you
get sick you need a new heart they would
replace you with a pig's heart right a
Pixar developed from the cell so we are
totally you know we we are talking out
of the disciple uh era you know we are
now really transmutant and all the best
scene or the viral injection or
injection or infection that we have done
to ourselves we are totally transmutant
I love that as a metaphor and I love
that as a just as a new terminology
moving past the cyborg into the era of
the trans mutants
um who knows maybe the next year we'll
get a you know we'll get a transmutant
Manifesto or
yes yes could be yeah yeah so
so that's good
I think we're just about out of time but
I really I so appreciate you being here
this was really wonderful I know it's
really late where you are in Europe
um thank you we thank you very much for
being here this is wonderful uh folks in
um if you had to
um Yuki is currently in development
um and there are lots of different ways
you can support the film uh check out
our website and we'll show you some
different ways of ways that you can
support and check out other uh
instantiations of this project as it has
been shown in various places around the
world we're so excited to see how you
keep going and see what the final the
the final film looks like
so yeah maybe come back to show the film
later yeah that would be amazing yeah I
know yeah I don't respect it before
20023 so okay okay I'm marking my
calendar
thank you so much thank you so much
bye